In many object oriented programming languages that have classes the idea of private and public fields
are really important.
Now in JavaScript we don't really have that.
And before what a lot of people did was anything that was private that shouldn't be accessed from let's
say a class or even an object we would add an underscore to let other programmers know that hey this
is a private method.
You shouldn't call it because well it's super important that you don't mess with it or you change it
but unfortunately underscore doesn't really do anything.
If I do attack here and let me remove this and I run it and we can't call attack anymore because we
renamed it let me just remove that.
All right.
Attack.
I can still use and I can maybe by mistake reassign it to just false so that now if I call Shrek dot
attack and I spell Shrek correctly.
I get false.
I just went ahead and I've overridden everything that's not good is it.
Well other languages like Java actually have keywords like private that make things private for us and
they are methods that would only be able to be used inside of the class.
Now you can actually solve this issue with something called weak maps in javascript but it's a little
hacky and well we don't want to get into it because there's a proposal coming up and based on when you
watch the video this might already be implemented in JavaScript or it might be a little bit different
the Atma script proposal is in stationary.
So that is it's getting pretty close to being part of the language and it's for class field declarations
and there's a few changes that can happen in here.
For example instead of having to call constructor on state that perhaps doesn't require parameters we
can do something like Age equals fifty four and this will be part of the state that we can use in other
areas.
So in my attack I could say this dot H.
So we don't have to go through the constructor when we don't have parameters but the other thing is
we can make things private.
If we add the pound sign like this it says this is a private variable and if I try and access H outside
of this class maybe as part of the instances here with Shrek or Dobie Well it's not going to let me
now for now we're most likely the closest to doing something like this where we can have private state
that is private data that can only be accessed inside of the class like this but private methods is
something that we are still working towards again depending on when you watch the video.
This feature might be implemented maybe we won't use the pound sign anymore and it'll be something different.
But for now you can see the progress is well not the fastest.
If we scroll all the way down we see that the proposal of private state started July 2016 and it's still
going through everything we have a stage 3 but there's now class fields and private methods that have
been updated to State Street.
So keep an eye out on this feature but be mindful that in JavaScript the idea of private and public
is still in the works the properties and methods are available and cannot be private at least for now.
I'll see in the next video by.